1.1 A sequence of binary digits is transmitted in a certain communication system. Any given digit is received erroneously with probability $p$ and received correctly with probability $1-p$. Errors occur independently from digit to digit. Out of a sequence of $n$ digits transmitted, what is the probability that no more than $j$ digits are received erroneously?

**Solution:** 

Assume the number of erroneous digits is $X$. Obviously, $X\sim B(n,p)$

$\displaystyle P(X\leq j)=\sum_{i=0}^jP(X=i)=\sum_{i=0}^j\mathrm{C}_n^ip^i(1-p)^{n-i}$

1.2 Suppose that $X_1$ and $X_2$ are Gaussian random variables with means $\mu_1$ and $\mu_2$, respectively. Assume that $\mu_1\neq\mu_2$. The variance for each of the two random variables is $\sigma^2$. Find the value of $x$ for which $f_{X_1}(x)=f_{X_2}(x).$

**Solution:** 

As $X_1\sim N(\mu_1,\sigma),X_2\sim N(\mu_2,\sigma)$, their $p.d.fs$ is $f_{X_1}(x)=\dfrac1{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma}\exp\left(-\dfrac{(x-\mu_1)^2}{2\sigma^2}\right),f_{X_2}(x)=\dfrac1{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma}\exp\left(-\dfrac{(x-\mu_2)^2}{2\sigma^2}\right)$

Let $f_{X_1}(x)=f_{X_2}(x)\Rightarrow(x-\mu_1)^2=(x-\mu_2)^2\Rightarrow x=\dfrac{\mu_1+\mu_2}2$

What is the characteristic function of an exponential random variable $X$? Find $E[X^3].$

**Solution:** 

The $p.d.fs$ of exponential random variable is $f(x)=\begin{cases}\lambda e^{-\lambda x},x\geq0\\0,x<0\end{cases}$

It's characteristic function: $\displaystyle \phi(t)=\int_0^\infty e^{itx}\lambda e^{-\lambda x}\mathrm{d}x=\dfrac{\lambda}{\lambda -it}$

$\displaystyle E[X^3]=\dfrac1{i^3}\phi^{(3)}(0)=\dfrac1{i^3}\left.\left(\dfrac\lambda{\lambda -it}\right)^{(3)}\right|_{t=0}=\dfrac6{\lambda^3}$

What is the probability generating function of an binomial random variable?

**Solution:** 

Assume an binomial random variable $X\sim B(n,p)$

The probability generating function can be calculated as follow:
$$
\begin{align}
P_X(z)=a^g(z)=\sum_{k=0}^nP(X=ki)z^k=\sum_{k=0}^n\mathrm{C}_n^kp^k(1-p)^{n-k}z^k
\end{align}
$$
Consider a clock powered by a single AAA battery. When a battery fails, the owner replaces the failed battery by one chosen randomly from two different brands. With probability $p$ one of brand 1 is chosen, and with probability $1-p$ one of brand 2 is chosen. Let $X_i$ denote the lifetime of a brand $i$ battery. For $i= 1$ and $2$, we  assume  that$ E\{ X_i\} = \mu_i$ and $Var\{ X_i\} = \sigma_i^2.$ Let $X$ denote the lifetime of the battery in use. Find $E[X]$ and $Var[X]$.

**Solution:**

$X=pX_1+(1-p)X_2$

$E[X]=pE[X_1]+(1-p)E[X_2]=p\mu_1+(1-p)\mu_2$

$Var[X]=p^2Var[X_1]+(1-p)^2Var[X_2]=p^2\sigma_1^2+(1-p)^2\sigma_2^2$

